# [Blog] Groking Software Architecture

Software is becoming an increasingly important ingredient in our modern habitat,  yet _how_  is not well understood. This can partly be explained due to its mostly invisible nature. To grok software architecture, I am seeking knowledge about former industrial architects philosophy e.g. [Le Corbusier, Toward an Architecture](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Toward_an_Architecture). Le Corbusier  rejected the work of architects of his time, and pointed to engineers that leveraged modern architecture through basic geometric forms. This has some analogies to struggles in software architecture: Combining the conceptually simplest artifacts, and proven well-known patterns often works best, and where complexity is only allowed as a lack of any simpler solution. Trying to beat complexity is a fight against the capabilities of the human mind, patience and the funding bank account.

The purpose of software architecture is to serve and process information in a coordinated and predictable manner. Information originates from human mind, and is fed back often in a processed form. Software architecture is about providing this information in a useful, fluent and empowering way.

Architecture is there for a reason, a response to a unfulfilled need or opportunity to improve from unsatisfying/non-existent architecture.  To properly address such needs a plan must exist. A plan should be made from an objective stating what business purpose it will fulfill. A plan for software architecture can not be filled with details. Details will emerge through the work, but should support the plan.
